=pod

(R)?ex is a small script to ease the execution of remote commands. You can write small tasks in a file named I<Rexfile>.

=head2 Dependencies

=over 4

=item *

L<Net::SSH2>

=item *

L<Expect>

Only if you want to use the Rsync module.

=item *

L<DBI>

Only if you want to use the DB module.

=item *

L<Net::Server>

If you want to run (R)?ex in Master/Agent mode.

=back

=head2 Usage

A small example:

=head3 Rexfile

 user "root";
 password "root";
 pass_auth;

 group "frontend" => "frontend[01..09]", "varnish[01..04]";

 
 desc "Show Unix version";
 task "uname", "server[1..9]", sub {
     say run "uname -a";
 };

 desc "Write into a file";
 task "write", group => "frontend", sub {
     my $file = file_write '/tmp/status.out';
     $file->write("File created\n");
     $file->close;
 };

=head3 Commandline

=over 4

=item *

Run commands directly from command line

 bash# rex -e 'say run "uptime";' -H "frontend[01..10] middleware[01..05]" -u root -p password

=item *

List all known Tasks

 bash# rex -T
 Tasks
   uname                     Show Unix version

=item *

Run Task I<uname>

 bash# rex uname
 Running task: uname
 Connecting to server1 (root)
 Linux mango 2.6.27-openvz-briullov.1-r4 #1 SMP Tue Nov 24 23:25:52 CET 2009 x86_64 Intel(R) Pentium(R) D CPU 2.80GHz GenuineIntel GNU/Linux
 Running task: uname
 Connecting to server2 (root)
 Linux debian01 2.6.26-2-amd64 #1 SMP Tue Aug 31 09:11:22 UTC 2010 x86_64 GNU/Linux

=back

=head3 Master/Agent

See https://github.com/krimdomu/Rex-Server for more information.

Create a new project on the master

 rexify myproject
 cd myproject

Edit the I<Rexfile>.

 use lib 'lib';
 use Rex::myproject;

 # put your server in this group
 group "fe" => "fe[01..05]";
 group "mw" => "mw[01..04]";

 desc "Deploy Frontend Server";
 task "deploy-fe", group => 'fe', sub {

   needs Rex::myproject 'fe';

 };

 desc "Deploy Middleware Server";
 task "deploy-mw", group => 'mw', sub {

   needs Rex::myproject 'mw';

 };
 
Edit the file I<lib/Rex/myproject.pm>

 package Rex::myproject 

 use Rex::Commands;
 use Rex::Commands::Run;
 use Rex::Commands::Pkg;

 task "fe", sub {
 
    install package => [
          'apache2',
          'php5'
       ];

 };

 task 'mw', sub {
 
    install package => [
          'tomcat6',
          'apache2',
          'libapache-mod_jk'
       ];
 
 };

 1;

Now start the rex-master server. The server will bind on any device and port 7345 (tcp)

 # debug mode (foreground)
 rex-master -d

 # daemon mode (background)
 rex-master -b

 # see all the options with rex-master --help


And start the agents on your servers.

 # see all the options with rex-agent --help

 # debug mode (foreground)
 # this will start the agent with:
 #        -s your-rex-server = the master server
 #        -i 5               = 5 seconds interval
 #        -f                 = foreground
 #        -d                 = debug mode
 #        -c                 = cache dir (this directory must be writable)
 rex-agent -s your-rex-server -i 5 -f -d -c /tmp/cache

Please test and reports bugs :) Any kind of feedback is welcome.

=cut
